`Development`: Update documentation for communication (#5954)
ls1intum/Artemis: docs/user/communication.rst

.. contents:: Content of this document
    :local:
    :depth: 3

Artemis enables students, tutors, and instructors to actively participate with its communication feature.

> Various communication features allow students to engage with peers and ask all kinds of questions whereas moderators

Reviewer: The sentence before speaks from one feature, now there are multiple ones

Author: This was done by previous developers and reformatted by me. However, I updated the first sentence to fit in better with the rest of the paragraph. How does it look now?

(e.g., instructors and tutors) can provide general course information and answer content-related questions.
Communication can be made in different contexts, namely for lectures, exercises, or courses. Course participants can also

> message each other to communicate in private. Below, you can find more information on specific features and how to use them.

Reviewer 2: [1]

Enabling Communication
----------------------

Artemis courses will by default enable all the communication features.

> In case you do not want to provide users with these features, you can disable them on course creation by unchecking the

Reviewer 2: [2]

|exercise-posts|

Course-wide Posts & Course Communication Overview
-------------------------------------------------

Besides lecture or exercise related questions, Artemis offers a third post type: posts with course-wide topics, such as
``Organization`` or ``Tech Support``. These posts can only be created on the course communication overview, which is shown
in the screenshot below.

The ``Communication`` space of an Artemis course serves as overview for *all* posts in a course.
Hence, course-wide posts as well as exercise posts and lecture posts are listed.
Here, users can easily query, sort, and filter existing posts.

|course-posts|

> Secluded Communication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Private Communication
```
```suggestion
Direct Communication
```

Secluded sounds like the wrong word to me here (e.g., a house in the middle of nowhere is secluded).

Author: Replaced with 'Private'.

> ----------------------
> Users of a course can communicate in private via the Messages page. (see image below) The page consists of a collapsible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
----------------------

Users of a course can communicate in private via the Messages page. (see image below) The page consists of a collapsible
```
empty line for consistency with other headings

Author: Done

> Users of a course can communicate in private via the Messages page. (see image below) The page consists of a collapsible

Reviewer 2: The existing parts of the documentation directly address the user (‘you’ [1,2]). The new parts only do it indirectly (‘Users can […]’).

I think the users should be directly addressed in the documentation written for them. In some cases it might alternatively be okay to just remove the ‘user[s]’ from the middle of a sentence to turn it into a general statement about the offered functionality [3].

This is only the first occurrence I marked, the comment probably applies in a few more locations I did not explicitly comment on as well.

Conversation sidebar on the left, where users can search for other participants of the current course and start a conversation
with them.

If the recipient is browsing another conversation when they receive a new message, an envelope icon appears in their

> Conversation Sidebar, next to the affiliated user who has sent the message. This way, users become aware of the new message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Conversation sidebar, next to the affiliated user who has sent the message. This way, users become aware of the new message
```
Having the titles as they appear in the Artemis UI capitalised looks good. Sidebar isn’t a part of that, though. (also consistency with line 63)

Author: Agreed 👍🏻

within that discussion.

The authorities of tutors and instructors are more restricted in the Messages Page compared to the Course Communication

> Overview. Only the authors of messages and replies can edit or delete them.

Reviewer: This makes it a bit unclear to me if e.g. instructors can see these messages

Author: You are right. I have made it clear more clear now.

> Messages do not have a title and tags and are not resolvable, pinnable, or archivable. Users can continue a discussion

Reviewer: Shouldn't you first explain that normal posts can be resolved, pinned and archived?

Author: This is explained in the sections after and I do not think they fit in any of the sections before this part. For this, I have removed this list of features. A feature that is not supported may also not be mentioned anyways.

> around a specific message topic by clicking the messages’ “Reply in thread” button, which opens the Thread Sidebar.
> (see image below). The Thread Sidebar is a collapsible sidebar located on the right-hand side of the Messages Page when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
around a specific message topic by clicking the messages’ “Reply in thread” button, which opens the Thread sidebar.
(see image below). The Thread sidebar is a collapsible sidebar located on the right-hand side of the Messages Page when
```

displayed.

|messages|

Features for Users
------------------

This section captures the most important features that are offered to any Artemis user.

Search, Filter, and Sort Posts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

On the course communication overview, a user can query *all* existing posts according to the following criteria and their

> possible combinations;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
possible combinations:
```

* Text-based search
    * Post ID (prepend hashtag ``#`` to post identifier, i.e. #396)
    * Contents of Post Title
    * Contents of Post Context
    * Post Tag
* Context filters
    * Lecture
    * Exercise
    * Course-wide topic
        * Announcement
        * Organization
        * Random
        * Tech Support
* Other post characteristics
    * Unresolved Posts
    * Own (posts current user has authored)
    * Reacted (posts current user has reacted or replied to)
* Sorting Configurations (ASC/DESC)
    * Creation Date
    * Number of Votes
    * Number of Answers

A simplified version of this feature is available on the exercise and lecture details page as well.

Verify User Authority
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To build trust between users utilizing the system's communication features, we prepend an icon to the author’s name in the

> headers of posts and their replies. The icon we introduce differs according to the role of the author within the course

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
headers of posts and their replies. The icon differs according to the role of the author within the course
```

and reveals their highest authoritative role. Via tooltips that are shown as users hover over these icons (see images below),
the system displays a brief explanation of that specific role. This way, the system builds trust in the author, and readers
can tangibly confirm the origin of the shared information.

Instructor Authority

|instructor-user|

Tutor Authority

|tutor-user|

Student Authority

|student-user|

React on Posts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To foster interaction between users, we integrate the well-known emoji reaction bar.
> Each user in the course can react on any post by making use of the emoji selection button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To foster interaction between users, we integrate the well-known emoji reaction bar.
You can react on any post by making use of the emoji selection button.
```

The ``+`` emoji serves as the up-voting reaction, which influences the display order of posts.

Reference Course Entities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Users can reference to different course entities within their posts, such as other posts, course exercises, course lectures,
and attachments of these lectures. All references are then prepended with icons which are unique to the reference's type,
to help users distinguish them conveniently. In the image below, we see all possible types of references that can be created
in an Artemis post.
|post-with-references|

Reference Posts
"""""""""""""""

If users want to refer to other posts, they can integrate a simple pattern including the hashtag (``#``) combined with

> the post identifier. A post's identifier is appended to the post title (such as seen in the screenshots above).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the post identifier. A post's identifier is appended to the post title (such as seen with ``#576`` in the screenshots above).
```

> When clicking a post reference used in a post's text, the user is navigated to the referenced post respectfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When clicking a post reference used in a post's text, the user is navigated to the referenced post.
```
I’m unsure what you mean with respectfully here.

Author: It is removed in response to @akesfeden's comment. Thanks for pointing it out though.

> When clicking a post reference used in a post's text, the user is navigated to the referenced post respectfully.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When clicking a post reference used in a post's text, the user is navigated to the referenced post.
```
You can remove `respectfully` or replace it with `respectively`.

> When clicking a post reference used in a post's text, the user is navigated to the referenced post respectfully.

Reviewer 4: I think removing `respectfully` makes more sense to me.

Author: It has been removed in response to previous comments. Thanks!

Reference Course Exercises
""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Users can refer to exercises of the current course, via the dropdown menu ``Exercise`` available on the posting markdown

> editor. (see image above) The following types of exercises are prepended unique icons to help users distinguish the type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
editor (see image above). The following types of exercises are prepended unique icons to help distinguish the type
```
[3]

Author: Looks better to me as well.

of the exercise being referenced.

* Text Exercise
* Quiz Exercise
* Modeling Exercise
* File Upload Exercise
* Programming Exercise

Reference Course Lectures
"""""""""""""""""""""""""
Users can refer to lectures of the current course, via the dropdown menu ``Lecture`` available on the posting markdown

> editor. (see image above)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
editor (see image above).
```

Author: Thanks!

> Reference Lecture Attachments
> """""""""""""""""""""""""""

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reference Lecture Attachments
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
```
Warning when building the docs that the underline does not match the text length

Author: Corrected 👍🏻

Users can refer to lectures of the current course, via the dropdown menu ``Lecture`` available on the posting markdown
editor. (see image above) Here, lecture attachments can be found in a nested structure.

Prevent Post Duplication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to prevent duplicated questions from being posted, we integrate a duplication check that runs during post creation.
We strongly recommend users that create a post, to check the automatically provided list of similar posts to find out whether
the question in mind has already been asked and resolved in the best case.

Mark Your Post As Resolved
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Marking a post as resolved will indicate to other users that the posted question is resolved and does not need any further input.

> This can be done by clicking the checkmark next to the answer post. (see image below)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be done by clicking the check mark next to the answer post (see image below).
```

Author: Implemented, thanks!
